====== Magic ======
All magic is a manifestation of life force, which permeates through all aspects of the natural and supernatural. "Life" in this sense does not refer to being living, but instead its nature as an animated, dynamic, and autonomous. In the body, it is the components of the non-physical - the soul, free will, consciousness, thought, logic, emotion and ki. In nature, it refers to the potential and spontaneity of matter and forces. This natural life force features the same factors of being that a person has - the processes of nature are a result of its life force's will.

Divine magic is sourced similarly from life force of the universe, but relates specifically to elemental and essential domains rather than the universal fabric that underpins it. While some scholars argue that divine magic is sourced from the natural world, others argue it is extraplanar. Furthermore, some argue that energy is sourced directly from deities, who themselves are vast manifestations or vessels of their domain's life force. Others argue that they simply channel them, pulling them from the natural or supernatural planes and delivering it to their disciples.


==== Wizardry ====
For a wizard to perform an arcane spell, they manipulate and negotiate with the life force of the natural world. When a wizard learns a spell, they make room in their consciousness for natural life force to inhabit it. In doing so, learning spells can shape the personality and worldview of a wizard in immense and possibly detrimental ways. 

Once a wizard has shaped part their life force to accommodate a spell, reshaping that part becomes much more difficult. However, as a wizard gains in their abilities, they become much more efficient in how they accommodate spells, aligning compatible spells in similar spaces of consciousness. In this way, over time a wizard is able to learn more spells, and more powerful ones, as their life force grows stronger and better controlled.

However, there does appear to be a hard limit, the . One can consider spells to operate in the same way that electron orbits work in molecules. Different 'layers', when in a correct configuration, can contain a certain number of spells based on a spells shape and power. However, beginner wizards never use these layers in their optimal fashion, often using multiple layers to accommodate a single spell when starting out. It takes a very advanced wizard to grasp this concept properly, and usually happens as an innate, unspoken understanding, intertwined with doing.


There is also additional danger in learning a spell in that, if a wizard has not trained their life force enough to accommodate a powerful spell, it may irreversibly damage their life force, in extreme cases disintegrating it, possessing it, or worse.

When a wizard sits down to memorize a spell, there is always a moment of clarity, the wizard feels as though they come to a profound realisation about the nature of reality and super-reality. This feeling is the life-force of the natural world entering and melding with their consciousness once more.

==== Bardic Magic ====
An Excerpt from: \\
//The Soul of a Bard// \\
by Fy'uldor Draghnum

>As has been made apparent in the last three chapters, a true bard's soul and his performance are inseparably intertwined.  When a bard breathes who he is into his music, then he and the music become one and the same. When he moves others with his performance, the song ceases to be a medium of symbolic meaning. His soul communicates directly with them. 
>
>To do so, the bard align their soul with others. They must understand their audience's very being. The souls find common ground, resonate together, form a dialogue of wills. Then, the bard professes the desires of his soul, and the recipient soul listens. Critically, as his melody and harmony dance out to meet a listener's ears, the bard extends his will and life-force along with it. With this fact, the power of a bard's soul is revealed.
>
>To reach a listener, a bard sends themselves out into the universe. And all the while, the universe is listening.
>
>The same way music approaches another's soul, it approaches the life-force of the universe.  The melody and soul of a bard reverberates into the world, filling reality with emotion, harmony and feeling. If a bard feels the movement of nature around them, the pulsing life of reality, then they may become wary of the universe’s harmonic alignment. They learn the soulful ebbs and flows of the world, and are able to recreate them in their own music.
>
>In the moment that a bard’s soul resonates with reality, the will of the bard and the will of the universe meet. They come to mutual understanding. From then, the bard may gently lead the soul of universe towards their own intent, spurring the universe to action from their music alone.
>
>Thus, not only can bardsong unlock the bard from the constraints of his body and mind. Not only can it free its listeners from the sorrows and vices of their lives. It has the unparalleled power to unlock the very secrets of the universe itself.
